In 2020, Yale and Yale New Haven Hospital did not pay an estimated $157 million in property taxes to New Haven that they would have under the current tax rate, even after taking into account their voluntary payments to the city and payments in lieu of taxes from the state. 1Despite the University’s counterclaims that it pays $5 million in property taxes each year for non-academic properties, contributed a cumulative $8.5 million to supporting the New Haven community, and remains “the city’s third-highest taxpayer,” these gestures are performative at best when examined within a larger history of neglect, exploitation, and settler colonialism.2 Yale’s $31.2 billion endowment feels like a slap in the face when the institution’s growing wealth is directly juxtaposed to New Haven’s growing income disparity; New Haven remains the second poorest city in Connecticut.

Divorcing past from present safeguards Yale’s reputation as a place of prestige and opportunity, selectively molded by those in power. Yet, histories of Yale’s present haunt every corner of its landscape. Though taken at face value as ‘objective’ realities, spaces– and by extension, the (re)presentation of these spaces– are in fact very politically and economically charged.4 This counter-mapping project seeks to unearth the ways in which “spatial production and empire-building work synergistically.”5 Conventional understandings of the map rely on an understanding of space as static and self-evident. We challenge this notion by asking: how is power imbricated in the ways we see space? What might we as students gain from re-orienting and re-imagining how we interact with the space Yale occupies in New Haven? History breathes life into the present. Our series of interactive maps bring this relationship to the fore, and by doing so, we hope to visibilize the contingency of colonial and imperial histories/legacies onto the University’s present reality

Our motivations are two-fold:
- We hope to think about the ways in which power– including its lineage and history in colonialism, settler colonialism, and modes of carcerality– operates in and informs the spaces we inhabit, particularly as it relates to Yale’s predatory relationship with the city of New Haven. We bring together and physically present the “intimacies” of different histories and stories that are often studied separately– namely, New Haven’s redlining history, property values, Connecticut’s unceded Indigenous territories, and Yale’s financial entanglements overseas.</li>
- We hope to unmask these spatial dynamics through a kind of counter-mapping. Our interactive maps transition between each other, exposing connections between different methods of mapping the city and Yale. We extend the work of many cartographers before us to specifically focus on how many ways geometries, projections, and scales can be manipulated to unsettle/disrupt the notion that maps are static representations of space.</li>

These maps depend on the prior research and labor of many others. We especially would like to credit Amanda Ciafone and the Graduate Employees and Students Organization (GESO, now known as Local 33) for their extensive research on Farallon; the Yale, Slavery, and Abolition project for the work on Yale’s foundation built through slave labor; and Students Unite Now, Fossil Free Yale, Yale Young Democratic Socialists of America, and the Endowment Justice Coalition for their tireless activism and research in recent years. We also thank the Mapping Inequality Project at Richmond University for shapefiles on redlining, Native Land Digital for shapefiles on Indigenous nations, Mark Abraham and Camille Seaberry for their work at DataHaven compiling easy-to-use data for New Haven and Connecticut, and Julia Salseda from Local 34 for the shapefiles of New Haven properties. Lastly, we uplift the tireless organizing and labor of New Haven residents who have long articulated Yale’s profound negligence to the city– the work we hope to achieve with our project is not new, but rather accompanies existing forms/modes of resistance.

The source code for all of these maps is viewable at https://github.com/18kimn/new_haven_map.