We begin with a map depicting New Haven properties, colored by value. Properties that are valued more highly are colored in lighter colors, and less valued properties are colored darker. Clicking on a property reveals a tooltip containing ownership, the year a property was built, zoning, a value breakdown, and acreage. Zooming out aggregates these properties to the block level.

This map puts two ideas forward. First, Yale owns a stunningly large number of high-valued properties, often hundreds or thousands of times more valuable than an average New Haven property. This idea is represented in this map both in Yale’s properties being filled with lighter colored, and in the tooltips revealing the exact value breakdown across land value alone and the improvements made on that land.

Second, property values in New Haven are highly segmented across neighborhood boundaries. The East Rock and Prospect Hill neighborhoods are light colored in this map, while the Dixwell, Beaver Hills, and Newhallville neighborhoods are purple or dark colored. It is worth noting that Yale is more proximate (in both geography of campus and student body preferences for off-campus housing) to East Rock and Prospect Hill than to Dixwell, Beaver Hills, and Newhallville.

While serving its purpose of revealing disparities in property value, the canonical map shows an isolated snapshot, hiding connections beyonds the map’s bounds as well as with other points in time. We move into the second map to address limits to specifically the temporality of this segregation.