We examine more closely the segregation of property values illuminated by Map 1. Our second map probes the connection of property values to race and pushes us to consider the historical roots of this connection. Map 2 shows the proportion of the population identifying as Black or African American in every block in New Haven. Moving the mouse across the map reveals the designation of redlined neighborhoods from the 1930s.

Redlining in the United States officially began in 1933, with the creation of the Home Owner’s Loan Corporation (HOLC) as part of President Roosevelt’s New Deal. Over the next twenty years, HOLC assessed ‘risk’ for potential homebuyers by classifying neighborhoods as either “Best” (shown here in green), “Still desirable” (blue), “Definitely declining” (yellow), or “Hazardous” (red). This classification depended heavily and explicitly on the racial composition of each neighborhood. For example, HOLC agents were directed to mark whether the area had an “infiltration of Negroes,” and the presence of low-income immigrants guaranteed a grade of “Hazardous.”

In turn, these classifications were distributed to lenders, discouraging them from lending to those seeking homes in “hazardous” areas.10 HOLC’s system of classification both relied on and reproduced a racialized geography of inequality; for example, in 1930, not one black person in St. Louis, Missouri, resided outside of a “hazardous” area.
Redlining’s history maps onto contemporary patterns of sociospatial wealth, across both time and place. Locating these patterns specifically in relation to the city of New Haven, New Haven-born and raised activist Charlie Delgado aptly describes this continuity:

> If you take the redlining map from 1937 and compare them to maps created decades later, you will see that the same neighborhoods that were denied opportunities in 1937 are today’s lowincome neighborhoods, struggling with shorter life expectancy, higher unemployment rates, and higher asthma rates. Now, Covid-19 is hitting those same neighborhoods.

Dragging the mouse across the current racial composition of the city on our own map echoes Delgado’s statement. For example, Dixwell currently houses the largest proportion of black residents (as depicted in yellow and green, indicating that 70-80% of residents identify as Black/African American). Drag the mouse, and we see that this region was also designated as “hazardous” in the 1930s according to HOLC criteria (as depicted in red). A clear pattern emerges when this is repeated across each geographic region: current racial composition aligns closely with redlining policies of the 1930s. This history’s continuity into New Haven’s present undergirds a cycle of racial inequity in which neighborhoods are “systematically locked out of opportunity.”

Cartographically, we also hope to engage the viewer in this map to realize the importance of historical research and analysis. The connections between policies of the 1930s and the neighborhoods of today is very real and often easy to see, as long as one looks for it through the first step of historical research (represented here as simply moving your mouse along the screen).