Connecticut is home to the traditional and current land of over twenty-five Indigenous nations, including the Mohegan, Mashantucket Pequot, Eastern Pequot, Schaghticoke, Golden Hill Paugussett, Niantic, the Quinnipiac, and other Algonquian speaking peoples. These and more are shown in our fourth map. Hover over each polygon to highlight the nation’s borders and names.

The simple acknowledgment of traditional Indigenous lands is canonical, not radical. Yale University even has “approved university language” for land acknowledgments, to be used to open university events. But the extent of recognition stops with naming Indigenous nations. Yale canonizes multiculturalism and inclusivity without moving towards any of the material changes that a true recognition of Indigenous land ownership should entail. In official university acknowledgment, there is no recognition of the unceded nature of these lands or the appropriation by settlers. The university also has no recognition of the material consequences that this ownership and appropriation has on society today. Violence is heavily silenced under a cloak of performative reconciliation.13

We gesture towards a few of those material consequences with our map, by arguing that a land acknowledgment extends beyond saying a few words at the start of an event. A land acknowledgment is really about land: understanding and accepting which areas are owned by whom, as well as learning how these interact with natural and administrative borders. By placing these inside an interactive map series of property, this map tries to push viewers to consider these ideas of land ownership, as well as how they are relevant to the other subjects we map in this project.

But this is really just a map. Billions of dollars, millions of acres, hundreds of millions of people, and so on must be moved and transformed for Indigenous sovereignty of this land to be restored. In the words of Eve Tuck and K. Wayne Yang, “decolonization brings about the repatriation of Indigenous land and life; it is not a metaphor for other things we want to do to improve our societies and schools.”

The shapefiles in this map come from the Native Land Digital project, which strives to map indigenous lands across the globe in order to challenge how we see the current land we inhabit.