The majority of our project focuses on New Haven, an area less than ten miles in diameter, to discuss Yale’s financial interests as spatial ones. But Yale’s financial interests expand to every corner of the globe, and we can find similar themes of racialized dispossession when we adjust the geographic scale of our map. In addition to confronting geographic scale, an examination of Yale’s financial interests also requires a deconstruction of periodicity and connections over time — of temporal scale. As Beth Lew-Williams writes on scale:

> It would be straightforward to synthesize -these stories, to take -these three narrative strands and weave them together to make a strong, tidy braid. This would be a multiscalar approach. But the intent here is not to combine the strands, but rather to break them down into their constituent fibers and to begin again. Only in starting afresh is it pos-si-ble to see how lines of causation cross traditional scales of analy­sis. This approach is better understood as “transcalar.”15

For Yale, this means that its involvement in the slave trade and the beginnings of its endowment,16 the escalation of its real estate investment in the second half of the 20th century, its multibillion-dollar stake in Farallon Capital Management,17 and its contemporary turn towards secretive “nontraditional asset classes” are part of a single global stream of history. That stream has reflected the changing interests of the ruling class over centuries, and has been filled with different modes of resistance and topics of controversy, but fundamentally has still been an unbroken reign of capital from the ivory tower.